# Server Migration Services
AWS Server Migration Service (AWS SMS) automates the migration of your on-premises VMware vSphere, Microsoft Hyper-V/SCVMM, and Azure virtual machines to the AWS Cloud. AWS SMS incrementally replicates your server VMs as cloud-hosted Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) ready for deployment on Amazon EC2. Working with AMIs, you can easily test and update your cloud-based images before deploying them in production.

# VM Import/Export
The VM Import/Export enables you to easily import virtual machine images from your existing environment to Amazon EC2 instances and export them back to your on-premises environment on demand. You can also export imported instances back to your on-premises virtualization infrastructure, allowing you to deploy workloads across your IT infrastructure.

# Application Discovery Service
AWS Application Discovery Service helps you plan your migration to the AWS cloud by collecting usage and configuration data about your on-premises servers. Application Discovery Service is integrated with AWS Migration Hub, which simplifies your migration tracking. After performing discovery, you can view the discovered servers, group them into applications, and then track the migration status of each application from the Migration Hub console. The discovered data can be exported for analysis in Microsoft Excel or AWS analysis tools such as Amazon Athena and Amazon QuickSight.

- Agentless discovery can be performed by deploying the AWS Agentless Discovery Connector (OVA file) through your VMware vCenter. After the Discovery Connector is configured, it identifies virtual machines (VMs) and hosts associated with vCenter. The Discovery Connector collects the following static configuration data: Server hostnames, IP addresses, MAC addresses, disk resource allocations. Additionally, it collects the utilization data for each VM and computes average and peak utilization for metrics such as CPU, RAM, and Disk I/O. You can export a summary of the system performance information for all the VMs associated with a given VM host and perform a cost analysis of running them in AWS.
- Agent-based discovery can be performed by deploying the AWS Application Discovery Agent on each of your VMs and physical servers. The agent installer is available for both Windows and Linux operating systems. It collects static configuration data, detailed time-series system-performance information, inbound and outbound network connections, and processes that are running. You can export this data to perform a detailed cost analysis and to identify network connections between servers for grouping servers as applications.

---------------
[Go Home](../README.md)